# Expression Parsing Calculator
## Overview
This program is an expression parsing calculator that evaluates arithmetic expressions containing variables. It leverages a recursive descent parser based on a specific grammar for evaluating expressions. It can handle basic arithmetic operations: addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division

## Grammar
The grammar used by the parser is defined as follows:
- `<E>` `::=` `<T>` `<E'>`
- `<E'>` `::=` `+` `<T>` `<E'>` `|` `-` `<T>` `<E'>` `|` `ε`
- `<T>` `::=` `<F>` `<T'>`
- `<T'>` `::=` `*` `<F>` `<T'>` `|` `/` `<F>` `<T'>` `|` `ε`
- `<F>` `::=` `<number>`
### Where:
- `<E>` represents an expression,
- `<T>` a term,
- `<F>` a factor,
- `<number>` a numeric literal,
- `<var>` a variable, and
- `ε` represents an empty production indicating the end of a sequence.

## Features
- Variable Handling: Users can introduce variables within expressions. If a variable has not been defined prior to its use, the calculator prompts the user to input a value.
- Error Handling: The calculator handles errors such as division by zero and invalid tokens gracefully, returning appropriate error messages.
##Usage
To run the program, provide the expression as a command-line argument:
```bash
go run main.go "expression"
```
Example:
```bash
go run main.go "3 + a * (b - 2)"
```
If a or b are not predefined, the calculator will prompt for their values during execution
## Implementation Details
The calculator uses channels to manage tokens generated by the lexer and consumed by the parser. It implements error detection during the lexing stage and parsing stage, ensuring robust handling of syntactically incorrect expressions or runtime errors
## Limitations
- The program currently handles integer values only
- Nested and complex expressions require correct syntax as per the implemented grammar for successful evaluation.
## System Requirements
- Go programming environment
Ensure your Go environment is correctly configured to run Go programs. This program has been tested on Go version 1.18.1 linux/amd64.
## Contributing
Contributions to enhance functionality, improve error handling, or extend the calculator's capabilities are welcome. Please submit a pull request or open an issue to discuss potential changes.
